to do
- driveway:  kitchen door 
- backyard:  ?
- dining room:  puzzle hardcoded to 1-2-3-4
- (kitchen): SearchRandom is Elixer; ok in this scenario?

- library:  smashing door isn't implemented

Valkyrie log cleanup:  ^NullReference.*?(\r\n\r\n)

Rooms to convert ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cell
Altar

Timing ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
												----- Movement -----
									Actions		3-inv	4-inv	5-inv
- Driveway							4
- Backyard							4
- Dining Room (1 box + 2 flux + 2 door(1-5) + 2 Ben + 9 puzzle)
									16
- Kitchen							3
- Hall1								5
- Hall2								1
- Gallery							3
- Foyer								5
- Study								2
- Library (6 + 6 puzzle)			12
- Chapel (4 +  1 priest + 4 monsters)
									7
- Crypt 							3
- Dungeon Cave						1
- Torture Chamber					2
- Dungeon Cell						2
- Basement							2
- Journal							5
- Arcane Manuscript					5


82 actions + 34 movement = 116
	Nice		-12 movement
	Not nice	-4 movement

Wanderers--Main
	Notes
		Wanderers are cultists who wander around the mansion.
		During the main phase, they always move toward the
		Dungeon Cell, though the named destination is based on
		exploration. See Starting Locations and EndingLocations 
		below.
		
		Wanderers start when exploredHall1
		
	Variables
		wandererMax				The most wanderers allowed on the board
		
		wandererCount			How many wanderers are on the board
		
		wandererFrequency		The number of rounds between spawns
		
		wandererCountdown		Set to wandererFrequency; when it hits
									0, a new wanderer is spawned
		
	Starting locations
		exploredChapel
		exploredStudy
		exploredLibrary
		exploredFoyer
		exploredHall2
		exploredGallery
		exploredHall1
		
	Ending locations
		exploredCell
		exploredDungeonCave
		exploredBasement
		exploredDiningRoom
	
	
	Event flow
		Start				wandererCountdown--
		
		Locations			wandererCountdown == 0 && exploredLocation && wandererCount < wandererMax
		...
		
		WandererPlaced		wandererCountDown = wandererFrequency, wandererCount++
		
		WandererNotPlaced	-
		
		WandererEnd			-
		
		


Wanderers--Ritual
								
								nice			not nice
	investigators	wanderers	action/round	actions/turn
	3				3 (-nice)	1/2				
	4				4 (-nice)	3/4
	5				5 (-nice)	1
	
Final thru main house in Actions
									total		wanderer							start
				nice		rounds 	wanderers	x 1000		counter 	w. rounds	ritual
	fewest		116 - 12						
	3			104 / 6		18		9			400			2-1/3		5			sarah + 4
	4			104 / 8		13		9			500			2			7			sarah + 2
	5			104 / 10	11		11			600			1000		8			sarah + 1


- Movement:	34 moves from driveway to cell, via Chapel
			11 from Gallery (w/candle) to opening exploreDungeonCaveViaBasement

- First Ritual is 10 mythos phases from start to outcome = gameHardFail




End Games -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Open Portal
		Goal		The portal is not open; try to stop the casting, rescue boy thru Chapel
		
		Trigger		All the items are found, the books are read, whole house explored
		
		Start-up	Sarah transports you thru the hole
					All mansion color stuff is disabled
					Stop wanderers, remove them from the board
		
		Portal		xx turns taken -or- 
		Casting		All items are found, whole house explored, all but 2 pages read
					"You can feel it start to happen"/woman screams
					
		Win			Cast fails, escape out the Chapel door w/boy, seal location
		
					You run out the door of the Chapel, breathing hard and
					nearly carrying the boy with you. Sarah follows you outside
					into the night. The full moon shines down, showing the path
					is clear of cultists. You are finally safe.
					
					Sarah turns to you and says, <<You were successful. Not only
					did we stop Matthias's current plans, we stopped anyone's
					ability to use this area to try again. Our nephew will grow
					up normally and I can finally find peace. Thank you.>>
					
					As you walk down the road you entered a few hours ago, you 
					reflect on everything that just happened. Exhausted and 
					still in shock, you wonder if the world will ever feel the
					same again. But you are also deeply comforted and proud
					that you were able to save the world from the evil that
					Matthias tried to bring.
					
					For now.
		
		Draw		Cast succeeds, but you are able to kill Matthias and the gate
					shuts down. The gate is not sealed. xx turns expired. 
					
					You run out the door of the Chapel, breathing hard, still
					panicked. Sarah follows you outside
					into the night. The full moon shines down, showing the path
					is clear of cultists. You are finally safe.
					
					Sarah turns to you and says, <<You were successful. But you
					were not able to seal the gate, so this will all happen
					again. I need to get back to our nephew, to see if there is
					anything I can do for him. Once he dies, I will try
					to send him to find peace. I will stay and wait for 
					the next opportunity to permanently stop this madness.
					Thank you for what you were able to do.>>
					
					As you walk down the road, you 
					reflect on everything that happened. Exhausted and 
					still in shock, you wonder if the world will ever feel the
					same again. While knowing you stopped his plans, Matthias
					still brutally killed his son. But you are at least comforted
					that you were able to save the world from the evil that
					Matthias tried to bring.
					
					You wonder if it will happen again and if anyone will be
					able to stop it next time, even temporarily. But for now, the world
					is safe and, with luck, it will never happen again.
		
		Fail		found altar, xx turns expire and gate still open
		
					As the ancient one nears the portal, you panic and try to 
					run. The altar room is shaking and stone from the ceiling
					is beginning to fall. Your cousin continues to cast the 
					summoning spell. You panic and begin to run.
					
					You find a door that leads back to the cave, but when you 
					enter, you find yourself surrounded by more cultists. This
					time, they outnumber you. You fall quickly to their 
					weapons.
					
					Broken and bleeding, you lie on the floor. A monstrous roar
					cuts through the din:  the ancient one has come through the
					gate. As you draw your last breath, the cultists fall to
					their knees and begin praying to the beast for salvation.
					The last thing you feel is the ceiling caving in and the
					screams of the cultists, betrayed by their god and killed
					for their foolishness. 
					
					The only comfort you have is in knowing that a stream of 
					sacrifice is required to keep the ancient one here. With
					so many cult members dead, maybe it won't be here for long.

					Maybe.
		
		Hard fails	didn't find altar (any goal)
		
					The house continues to shake, light streaming up through
					the floorboards and, somehow, through the cave walls. With
					a thunderous clap, the ceiling rains down as the house
					begins to collapse. You run toward
					the servant dining room, but when you get there, 
					cult members block your path. They attack you without
					mercy.
					
					Sarah leans down and whispers, <<We failed and there is no
					telling how much of the world will be destroyed, how many
					people will die. But thank you for trying.>>
					
					As you lie on the floor, bleeding and dying, the cultists
					run out the door to safety. Your last living experience is 
					the floor under you rising up as the beast enters the world.
					
					The End
					
		Notes
		
		
		

2. Feed Portal
		Goal		Kill enough cultists that the already-open portal collapses
		
		Trigger		All the items are found, the hole is found, the books are read, whole house explored
		
		Start-up	Feel the portal open, Sarah warns about the feeding, start feeder-cultists
					All mansion color stuff is enhanced; this is brutal
					Stop wanderers, remove them from the board
					Start feeder-wanderers
		
		Portal		xx turns expired -or-
		Casting		All the items are found, whole house explored, all but 2 pages read		
		
		Win			xx cultists killed
		
					As the last cultist falls---and with Matthias dead---the gate
					begins supputtering. As the sealing spell is completed, the
					gate collapses and the boy falls to the ground with thud. He
					burns like coals, his eyes open wide in terror and pain. He
					moves his mouth but no sound comes out.
					
					Sarah turns to you and says, <<You were successful. Not only
					did we stop Matthias's plans, we stopped anyone's
					ability to use this area to try again. I only wish our
					nephew will have survived. I will stay with him here, then
					help him find peach once he dies. Thank you.>>

					As you exit the chapel into the moonlit night, you reflect
					on what happened these last hours. The mystery, the fear,
					and the death. And you nephew. Thinking of him smouldering
					back there makes your gorge rise.
		
					Exhausted and still in shock, you wonder if the world will
					ever feel the same again. But you are also deeply comforted
					and proud that you were able to save the world from the evil
					that Matthias tried to bring.
		
		Draw		same number killed, but xx turns expired--exhaustion/cultists kill you
					but, hey, at least the monster won't kill the world

					The last cultist falls at your feet. You stagger back, 
					broken and bleeding. Unable to stand, you fall to the floor.
					There are no cultists behind that last one. Without Matthias
					to keep it open and the cultists sacrifice, the gate
					begins sputtering with instability. A tentacle tentatively
					pokes through, but pulls back whe the gate pops violently.
					
					Sarah leans down and whispers, <<The beast was not able to
					make it through. Soon the gate will collapse and our nephew
					will die. I will see him to peace. But you were not able to
					seal it closed, so it can happen here again. After I guide
					the boy to peace, I will return and wait for the next
					attempt.>>
					
					The last thing you see is Sarah softly calling your 
					newphew's name while the gate destablizes. As you die
					you take pride in what you were able to accomplish. You
					saved the world. For now at least. 
					
					The End
							
		Lose		xx cultists escape thru hole -or- xx turns expire
		
					The cultists beat and stab you to the ground and eventually
					you are unable to fight back or defend yourself. One after
					the other, you watch the cultists approach the gate with a
					drawn dagger, and slit their own throats. As another draws
					across his neck, tentacles begin coming through the gate.
					The room is shaking and the ceiling is starting to rain
					down on you. 
					
					Sarah leans down and whispers, <<We failed. The beast is
					here. With your unused elder sign, someone else could fix
					the gate to keep it open. Our newphew could remain as the 
					gate indefinitely, a fate much worse than death. I will
					stay and try to find a way to close the gate, but the world
					is in trouble.>>
					
					The last thing you hear before it all goes dark is Sarah.
					<<Thank you for trying. We did the best that we could.>
					
					The End.
		
		Notes		Is there a way to have cultists move to specific locations on each activation?
						Like coming thru the door and automatically move toward the hole?

3. Close Portal
-		Goal		EventChosenInvestigator kills cousin, casts closing spell
		
-		Trigger		All items found, the hole is found, the books are read, whole house explored
		
-		Start-up	Sarah transports you thru the hole
					If you go through immediately or next turn, you see the elder sign float and seat, and cousin starts summoning
					Otherwise, your cousin seems to be casting a summoning ritual
					All mansion color stuff is disabled
					Stop wanderers, remove them from the board

-		Portal		xx turns expired -or-
		Casting		All the items are found, whole house explored, all but two pages read
					Regardless, all mansion color stuff is disabled
		
-		Win			Cast succeeds

					The gate winks out and the boy falls to the ground, 
					smouldering like coals in a fire pit. The elder sign is
					embedded in his forehead, unnoticed in the pain of the 
					fire.
					
					Sarah leans in a whispers, <<You were successful in stopping
					Matthias and his plans to remake the world. You also stopped
					anyone else from trying it here again. Once the boy dies, I
					will help him find peace, then I will be able to rest. Thank
					you.>>
					
					As you exit the chapel into the moonlit night, you reflect
					on what happened these last hours. The mystery, the fear,
					and the death. And your nephew. Thinking of him burning
					back there makes your gorge rise.
		
					Exhausted and still in shock, you wonder if the world will
					ever feel the same again. But you are also deeply comforted
					and proud that you were able to save the world from the evil
					that Matthias tried to bring.
					
					The End.
		
-		Draw		cast succeeds but xx turns expire: altar room collapses and kills you
					but, hey, at least the monster won't kill the world
					
					As you say the last word the cave shakes, the gate flashes and pops, then
					it winks out of existance. When it does, the boy falls to the floor
					with a thud. His eyes are wide with fear and pain; his
					mouth moves but no sound comes out. 
					
					Sarah turns to you and says, <<You were successful. But you
					were not able to seal the gate, so this will all happen
					again. Once the boy dies, I will try
					send to send him to find peace. I will stay and wait for 
					the next opportunity to permanently stop this madness.
					Thank you for what you were able to do.>>
					
					As you exit the chapel into the moonlit night, you reflect
					on what happened these last hours. The mystery, the fear,
					and the death. And your nephew. Thinking of him burning
					back there makes your gorge rise.
					
					At least the world is safe tonight. 
					
					The End.
		
-		Lose		xx turns expire:  summoning succeeds

					(same as goalOpenGate)

Linting:  list of things to check
- every read variable is set somewhere
- Every used token exists
- every token is used
- Every VarTrigger is @Trigger'd somewhere
- Every referenced event actually exists
- Every token, tile, and monster is available with the selected expansions
- Every variable that is assigned is used somewhere
- 
- 

Main image
I am writing a scenario for Mansions of Madness, a board game. In the style of that game's art, I need an image that is exactly twice as tall as it is wide. It will be a house with a man and woman walking up to it.

The house large:  two stories, and stretches outside the frame on both sides. On the right side, there should be floor-to-ceiling windows. The front door is visible. The house is old and run-down. A broken cobble stone drive leads up to the house. The landscaping was beautiful once, but everything is dry and brown, and tall weeds grow everywhere. If looking from above with the front of the house facing 6:00, rotate the house to face 4:30.

The man and woman are adults dressed for cleaning. She is not in a maids uniform. The are walking up the drive toward the house. It is dusk; one of them carries a lantern.



Compiler
-	add support for token highlighting when an "!" is put after its name on ADD or REMOVE
-	add linting tool
-	add SPAWN support:  create an event as part of the book that is triggered and goes to the SpawnXxx
		No text is needed anywhere because, after the spawn, flow returns to where we triggered
		
-	add tool that allows translations to be done without full structure, like

		MACROS
			... = ...-
		


		BOOK Hall2
			PAGE PlaceHall2
				PROLOG "..."
				BUTTON "..." AFTER "..."
				TEXT "..."
				IF cond THEN TEXT "..."
			[no END needed]
		]

		The "LANGUAGE name" directive changes to "LANGUAGE FILE name"

		add tool that generates a set of localization files; can maybe validate
		that the .book and .txt files align?
		
		Call these, like, Hall2.Localization.Spanish.txt

-	Add {Macro} support to strings


ClosePortal Book:  make sure Step3 is organized correctly with repeats

SightHall2: As you try to look farther down the hall, that painting catches your eye again. Maybe you should take a closer look?

Once Sarah is found, explore/site works normally

BackyardBenAfter
  - when leaving, the camera doesn't move the investigator token until hitting [continue]
  

Do mythos wipe at start of mythos
Do investigator wipe at start of investigator phase

BackdoorLocked.book:  totally messed up in app

PlaceChapelViaCrypt

ExploreAltarViaCell--this needs work around ritual and such

How does ritual start? What effect does that have on cell and altar?

SarahPatter.ElderSign:  If goal=close:  should be the default text


-----------------------------


Extremely minimal solo piano ambience.
Cold, ritualistic, and psychologically unsettling.
Very slow tempo, long pauses between notes.
Avoid melody, avoid harmony, mostly single notes.
Unresolved, unstable tonal center with dark dissonant feeling.
Designed as background for a horror game.
No vocals, no percussion, no pads.
Sparse, empty, patient, looping-friendly.
Resist becoming musical.
Do not develop themes.
No emotional swell.
No beginning or ending.
Should feel like it continues indefinitely.


Solo piano. Ultra minimal.

No melody, no arpeggios, no chords.
Single notes only. No sustain pedal.

Flat, emotionally neutral performance.
Mechanical and indifferent. 

No cinematic swells.
No development.
No variation.

Cold, ritualistic, psychologically tense.
Unresolved and static. Tritones, discordant.

Background loop for a horror game.
Should feel endless.

Nothing else is allowed.

Avoid beauty. 


Music for a tabletop horror game in the style of Theodore Shapiro.
Minimal, emotially neutral performance
Cold, ritualistic, psychologically tense.
Should feel endless.

EpidemicSound.com: drone, suspense, scary, dark, horror
- Dark Space
- Catecombs
- They walk among use
- cursed tunnel
- are you alone--victor lundberg

https://artlist.io/royalty-free-music/categories/scary
- Left Behind (first part)
- The sacred Union
- Descending Chamber chopped up
- Infinite Emptiness (first half)
- Mirrors first part
- A Dark Creature is Around (most of it)
- All hope Abandon (maybe filler?)
- Crimson Shadows (first two sections, especially the second)
- Underwood (filler?)
- Into the Next Dimension (Severance)
- Truthful Poetry (the hum at the beginning that goes continuously)
- Somebody There (intro humming)
- The Summoning (end part is overwrought) 
- The Paladins (am I punch-drunk?)
- Low Clouds over Dublin
- Darkness (first half)
- I Want You to See (parts)
- Promises (!)
[stopped at Goliath]



You have been very helpful. Thank you. I'm going to ask you to do the same thing again, but with more specific instructions. 

I am writing a game script. It is written in a custom programming language.

The top level is a book:  BOOK ... END BOOK. Everything inside it is a single topic, like a room, a conversation, or a sequence of events like a ritual.

Inside the book are pages:  PAGE ... END PAGE. A page is a single exchange. Displayable text is always in single (") or triple (""") double-quotes. There are two kinds of text:  PROLOG/EPILOG and TEXT. You may change only text inside double-quotes.

PROLOG:  This is text that the player will be presented with. If there is a 'BUTTON ""' after it, the text there will display as the button the player can push to see the next text. PROLOG is optional.

TEXT:  This is the response to the PROLOG when the user pushes the button. If there is no PROLOG, it is displayed immediately. Every page will have either a TEXT statement or a NO TEXT statement.

Each PAGE can have only a single TEXT block displayed. Some of the TEXT statements have IF in front of them. The first one matching the criteria will display. If none match, the TEXT will show.

TEXT has certain formatting conventions that must be followed. Here are punctuation and what they mean.
	<i>...</i>		italics
	<b>...</b>		bold
	
	<<     			open double-quote
	>>				close double-quote
	<				open single quote
	>				open double-quote
	'				apostophe
	-				hyphen
	--				n-dash; used for ranges like 1 -- 10. I the text I give you, it is used as an em-dash; please fix this
	---				em-dash
	\\				A single \ in the text
	
White space
    blank line		If there are blank lines, the separate paragraphs and should be honored
	single line		A single linefeed is ignored, as though the line continues from the previous lines
	space/tab		More than one in a row is ignored
	top/bottom		All white space at the top and bottom of the text is ignored
	\n				The same as having a blank line in the middle. Always rewrite this as a blank line between sentences.
	
Hypens and em-dashes never have spaces around them; en-dashes always have spaces around them.

There is certain instructional text that needs to stay unchanged. Any sentence that starts with or contains these phrases should not be changed.
	Place ... as indicated
	Gain ... .
	Remove ...
	An investigator holding ... can interact with it in the app.	
	Discard...
	Improve... 
	Tap to attempt the puzzle using...
	Move 1 space into the explored area.
	
These words are always capitalized
	Common Item
	Unique Item
	Site Token
	Explore Token
	Interact Token
	
These phrase have capitalization like what is shown here.
	become Stunned/Restrained/Poisoned/Dazed/
	suffer 1 Horror/Damage
	suffer 1 facedown Horror/Damage
	
There are instructions with "negates" in them. The period should always go after the closing parentheses:
	Suffer 1 Horror ({will} negates).
	Suffer 1 facedown Damage ({strength} negates)
	
If you see "Take 1 Damage" change it to "Suffer 1 Damage". Always correct capitalization if it is wrong.
	
In instructional text, numbers are always spelled with digits; in expository writing, the numbers follow the usual 0 - 10 is spelled out and above that, digits are used.

The text inside triple-quotes always has three tabs in front of it. Each tab is
4 characters wide. Including those, no line can be longer than 80 columns. Wrap
the lines if needed.


Chat-GPT rewrites

+----  done
|+---  gpt
||+--  reviewed
|||+-  tested
||||
vvvv
xx		Driveway
x		Backyard
x		DiningRoom
x		Kitchen
x		Hall1
x		Hall2
x		Gallery
x		Foyer
x		Study
x		Library
xxx		Chapel
x		Crypt
x		DungeonCave
x		TortureChamber
o		DungeonCell
o		Altar

x		BenBefore
x		BenAfter
o		CloseGate
o		FeedGate
xxx		OpenGate
x		DvmOpenGate
x		DvmCloseGate
x		Journal
x		EndingBook -> Endings (GameOver?)
o		Mythos
o		MythosFirstRitual
o		WandererAttacks
x		SarahPatter
o		SarahritualWarnings (???)
o		Startup







	

 
 